## National Parks Directory: An Application Programming Interface

# Documentation

#### By Krista Rutz. Last updated on April 3, 2020.

Welcome to the National Park Directory API! Use this API to access information about National Parks in the United States and update park closure information in light of the federal social distancing recommendations, which have affected park openings in many states.

## Request Overview

Use the links in the table under the "Request" header to view more detailed information about how to format requests and specify parameters to customize results.

| Request                                       | Request Type | Route Endpoints                                            |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :----------- | :--------------------------------------------------------- |
| [National park search](#national-park-search) | GET          | `http://localhost:5000/api/nationalparks`                  |
| [Retrieve one park](#Retrieve-one-park)       | GET          | `http://localhost:5000/api/nationalparks/{NationalParkId}` |
| [Add a park](#add-a-park)                     | POST         | `http://localhost:5000/api/nationalparks`                  |
| [Edit a park](#edit-a-park)                   | PUT          | `http://localhost:5000/api/nationalparks/{NationalParkId}` |
| [Remove a park](#remove-a-park)               | DELETE       | `http://localhost:5000/api/nationalparks/{NationalParkId}` |

## About the data

Data is available in JSON format.

National park entries contain fields for the park name, the park code written in alphabet characters, the two-digit state code, the region of administration within the National Parks Service, the URL of the homepage for the park's website, and a boolean indicating closure status. The application currently contains information on 18 national parks.

#### Example Park Result

```
    {
        "nationalParkId": 17,
        "name": "Denali National Park",
        "alphaCode": "DENA",
        "stateCode": "AK",
        "region": "Alaska",
        "url": "https://www.nps.gov/dena/index.htm",
        "isOpen": false
    }
```

#### Parsing the Data

<table>
  <th>key</th>
  <th>type</th>
  <th>description</th>
  <tr>
    <td>nationalParkId</td>
    <td>int</td>
    <td>This key is autogenerated as entries are added</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>name</td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>The full name of the park, including the short name and the park designation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>alphaCode</td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>The unique 4 character code representing the park for administrative purposes, such as url generation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>stateCode</td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>The 2 character code of the US state or territory where the park is located</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>region</td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>One of seven administrative regions in the US NPS under which the park is located</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>url</td>
    <td>string</td>
    <td>The url of the homepage for the park's website</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>isOpen</td>
    <td>bool</td>
    <td>A true or false value indicating if the park is currently open during normal hours.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

# GET requests

## National park search

Request type: GET

Search for a list of national parks, and use parameters to customize your results. Valid parameters include `name`, `alphacode`, `statecode`, `region`, `isopen`, `limit`, and `start`.

### Retrieve All

When seeking a list of all available park data, simply submit a GET request with no parameters. See the [pagination](#pagination) section if you wish to get more than the default number of results.

```
http://localhost:5000/api/
```

### Filtering Results

### Pagination

The National Park Directory API returns a default of 20 results at a time, and a maximum of 1000. Use the `limit` and `start` query parameters to change the results given. The `limit` specifies how many requests

### Retrieve one park

Use this type of request to pull a single park based on the park's `nationalParkId`. This GET request cannot be used with query parameters, as it always returns a single park (or nothing, if no parks match the given ID).

```
http://localhost:5000/api/{nationalParkId}
```

# All other requests

Be very careful when adding or changing information in the database. The following request types modify the underlying data, and cannot be reversed.

The POST, PUT, and DELETE requests follow the following route format:

```
http://localhost:5000/api/{nationalParkId}
```

#### Request Format

Format POST and ADD request content as JSON objects in the request body.

**Error Codes** The API will throw a 400 Bad Request error if the `alphaCode` exceeds 4 characters or if the `stateCode` exceeds 2 characters.

## Add a park

```
{
    "name": "National Park of American Samoa",
    "alphacode": "NPSA",
    "statecode": "AS",
    "region": "Pacific-West",
    "url": "https://www.nps.gov/npsa/index.htm",
    "isopen": 1
}
```

## Edit a park

## Remove a park
